# Liquid Messages: Changes from V1 to V2

## Introduction
This document outlines the changes that have been made from V1 to V2, the latter being still in process.

## Merging Liquid Messages with Liquid Church Functionality
For historical reasons we won't waste space on here, Liquid Messages has existed as two plugins. In 2.0 they have been merged into a single plugin. This resulted in a number of files being added to the lqd-messages plugin.
- assets
    - css
        - lqdm-style-admin.css / .min.css = Styles relating to the back-end administration of the plugin.
    - js
        - liquidchurch-page-option.js / .min.js
        - lqm-admin.js / .min.js
- includes
    - pages
        - class-option-page.php
        - sermon-plugin-option-page.php
    - shortcodes
        - shortcodes-resources
            - class-admin.php
            - class-run.php
            - class-shortcode.php
    - class-metaboxes.php
- templates
    - sermon-resources-shortcode.php, sermon-resources-shortcode-item.php, ...-item-audio.php, ...-item-embed.php, ...-item-image.php, ...-item-video.php, sermon-resources-shortcode-li.php
    - sermons-single.php
- tests
    - test-play-button-shortcode.php

## Reducing Excess Functionality
Some functionality that was built into the original plugins has never found practical use and has been removed.
    - Duplicate Video Checking before adding a new message.
    - Related Links have been removed in favor of the Resources option which is more flexible.
    - Removed sermon_play_button shortcode as it was never used.
    - Removed gc_recent_sermon as it was never used.

## Removing Complexity
Some functionality might be useful but in attempting to shift the plugin from v1 to v2 pulling out some useful code helped expedite the upgrade process without causing significant actual functional usage loss.
    - Removed most_recent_with_audio_media, this was never used.
    - Removed gc_audio_player shortcode, this was never used.
    - Remove gc_sermon shortcode, never used.
    - Remove Bulk Message Editing Option, this was never used.

## Standardizing Naming
- Removing gc-sermons where it exists and replacing with lqdm.
    - This is true in a number of variations, e.g., "GC Sermons" becomes "Liquid Messages."
- Files:
    - assets/js/lqdm-videos.js - Formerly gc-sermon-videos.js


## Documentation
We have attempted to extensively document the system both for developers and users.

At the same time we have stepped away from some of the more standard PHPDocs, particularly for declaring variables as this was significantly expanding the size of code without providing significant value.

## Manual Composer Autoloading Edits
Some of the dependencies used by Liquid Messages are not in a completely consistent state making the use of Composer to load the dependencies a dangerous proposition. As such, edits have been made to the autoloading files generated by Composer. We do not recommend, at this time, using Composer to install dependencies.

Some dependencies have also been removed entirely icnluding cmb2-related-links and TGMPA.

The most difficult dependency, WDS-Shortcodes has undergone some modifications to remove some of its dependencies and avoid using Composer with it as well.